# Content

## Guide to the Artifacts
Note: To be able to run the scripts, you need to have [kmax](https://github.com/paulgazz/kmax) and [syzkaller](https://github.com/google/syzkaller) installed. Please refer to the installation instructions of these tools to install them.

This guide provides information on how we used the artifacts during the experiments and post-processing of the results. First, we initiate the 12-hour experiment with configuration variety using repairer.sh script. The script will take a random start and end date and an arbitrary syzkaller configuration file taken from the syzbot dashboard It will collect all the commit IDs belonging to the interval between start and end dates. Next up, it will check the commit IDs one by one against the configuration file with koverage to see if the configuration file includes lines in the patch commit. If not, klocalizer will be used to repair the configuration file to include those lines. Then, a kernel image will be built with the repaired configuration file and syzkaller will start fuzzing the image for 12 hours.

The same 12-hour experiment will be conducted without configuration variety using original syzkaller configurations using fuzzing_syzkaller_default.sh script.
Next, we will use the scripts to post-process the results of the experiments.
In the beginning, we analyze crash folders of each run of fuzzing with and without configuration variety to check whether previously unreported bugs are present and need to be reported to the Linux kernel mailing list.
To check whether a bug is previously unreported we manually analyze the bug's alarm name and call trace and compare it with the existing bug reports with the same description in the Linux kernel mailing list.

If the bug is previously unreported, we report it to the Linux kernel mailing list. To report the bug, we use the following steps:
1. We first determine at what source file the bug occurred from the syzkaller bug report.
2. Next, we provide the file name to the script called ./scripts/get_mainter.pl to obtain the email addresses of the maintainers of the file.
3. Then, we generate a bug report and include the head commit ID of the Linux-next version we fuzzed, link to the kernel configuration file used to build the kernel, a reproducer file (if exists) to reproduce the crash, and syzkaller bug report of the crash.

find_reproducers.sh can be used to find reproducers of the crashes found during the aforementioned experiment, fuzzing with and without configuration variety. Reproducers are necessary to be included in the bug reports as they help the maintainers analyze the crash. They are also useful to check whether the crash is reproducible on the kernel built with the original syzkaller configuration files.
To be able to check that, we use collect_reproducers.sh to sort reproducers based on their type (C or syz programs) and then manually upload them to kernel emulated with QEMU to see if they crash.

We also use build_kernel.sh, script to build kernel images based on a provided set of configuration files and commit tags to checkout.
We also analyze whether the crash is the result of configuration option changes our tool made while repairing the syzkaller configuration file. For instance, we used ifdef_find_bug_relevance.py to check whether configuration options related to files that contain definitions of functions found in the call trace of a bug's syzkaller report or configuration options related to conditional blocks that may cover the call of those functions exist in configuration files with and without configuration variety.
If there are configuration options that exist in the repaired configuration and not in the original syzkaller configuration and if that option caused a source file that contained the definition of a function found in the call trace of the bug to be included, or it caused an #ifdef conditional block to that covered the call of the function to be included, we consider that our changes led to the crash.

In addition, we instrumented reproducer files generated by syzkaller to have KCOV visibility to get program counters executed by the reproducer. We later converted those program counters to source code lines and checked if those lines existed inside of an #ifdef conditional block that turned true with our modification to a configuration option, with the help of addr2line_inside_ifdef.py.

We also analyze and deduplicate the alarms found during the experiments with and without configuration variety using the scripts find_unique_crash.py and bugs_unique_and_common.py. With the help of these scripts, we also check the bugs found that are unique to each experiment and the bugs that are common to both experiments. These results can be found in data_tables/Repaired-SYZKALLER Deduplicated Crash name+Trace(Bug Finding+Coverage).xlsx and data_tables/Repaired-SYZKALLER Only Crash+Call Trace(Bug Finding+Coverage).xlsx.
Overall, more information about the experiments and the results can be found in data_tables/Table_of_all_crashes.xlsx.

### Replication Study
We also performed a replication study for configuration files used by kernel fuzzers syzkaller and kAFL and repaired configuration files. We used the syz-kconf utility to generate syzkaller configuration files for each commit ID and then used the koverage tool from the kmax tool suite to see whether there were lines from the patch commit that were excluded in syzkaller configuration file, and if yes, we used klocalizer tool from kmax to "repair" the syzkaller config to include those lines as well. We performed the same set of steps for the kAFL configuration file. We took the configuration file mentioned in the kAFL tutorial. We measured how much of a patch coverage increase is achieved by the repaired configuration file compared to the original Syzkaller and kAFL configuration files using the calculate_confidence_intervals.py script. Moreover, we plotted a bar chart of the results of the replication experiment using calculate_confidence_intervals.py. We divided datasets for pairs of Syzkaller and repaired Syzkaller configuration files, kAFL and repaired kAFL configuration files, and defconfig and repaired defconfig configuration files into three bar groups. You can view Figure(Average patch coverage of syzkaller, kAFL, and defconfig.) to see the results of the replication study. Patch coverage results of the replication study for each dataset are stored in syzkaller_config_patchcoverage.txt, krepair_patchcoverage.txt, kafl_config_patchcoverage.txt, kafl_krepair_patchcoverage.txt, defconfig_config_patchcoverage.txt, defconfig_krepair_patchcoverage.txt files. All results of the replication study are stored in: #TODO add zenodo link

### Change Summary Study

We evaluated how our approach changed the number of configuration options of the original Syzkaller configuration files used in the experiments.
krepair_syzkaller_evaluation/change_summary_2.sh script was used to evaluate the change in number of configuration options of repaired Syzkaller configuration files against the total number of the configuration options available on the configuration system. 
The number of total configuration options was obtained from the configuration system of the Linux kernel using find_total_config_option_count.sh script. The CSV file that contains the names of the original and repaired Syzkaller configuration, and patch commits that are used to repair the original configuration files can be found at change_of_summaries_bug_finding_coverage.csv The CSV file that contains the names of the original and repaired Syzkaller configuration, and patch commits that are used to repair the original configuration files is change_of_summaries_bug_finding_coverage.csv.
We calculated the change of summary percentile information and represented them in a table. You can view Table(Number of configurations options changed by krepair) to see the results of the change summary study.

### Bootability Study

We evaluated the bootability of the kernel images built with the configuration files generated by utilities like allyesconfig, allnoconfig, and randconfig.
We generated 100 configuration files with the randconfig utility, providing it random seed of epoch time via the KCONFIG_SEED environment variable, and also provided a probability of a configuration option to be enabled with 50% probability via the KCONFIG_PROBABILITY environment variable. 
We used Linux-next version v6.7 to compile the configuration files. test_100_randconfigs.py script was used to generate configuration files with randconfig, build kernel images with them, and try to boot the kernel images with QEMU. We observed that 100% of the kernel images built with the configuration files generated by the randconfig utility were not bootable. You can view the results of the bootability study in randconfig_experiment_results_1710910573.csv file.
Furthermore, we generated kernel images using configuration files generated by allyesconfig and allnoconfig utilities on Linux-next version v6.7. We observed that neither the kernel image built with the allyesconfig configuration file nor the kernel image built with the allnoconfig configuration file was bootable.
## Artifacts

- build_allnoconfig.sh - This script is used to build the Linux kernel with an allnoconfig configuration file.
- build_allyesconfig.sh - This script is used to build the Linux kernel with an allyesconfig configuration file.
- calculate_confidence_interval.py - This script is used to calculate the confidence intervals of the coverage of Syzkaller and repaired configuration files and provides a bar chart to visualize the results.
- change_of_summaries_bug_finding_coverage.csv - this CSV file contains the names of the original and repaired Syzkaller configuration, and patch commits that are used to repair the original configuration files.
- defconfig_config_patchcoverage.txt - this file contains the patch coverage of defconfig configuration files.
- defconfig_krepair_patchcoverage.txt - this file contains the patch coverage of repaired defconfig configuration files.
- find_total_config_option_count.sh - This script is used to get the number of configuration options available in the configuration system of the Linux kernel.
- get_percentage_change.py - this script is used to measure the change in the number of configuration options of repaired Syzkaller configuration files against the total number of configuration options available on the configuration system.
- kafl_config_patchcoverage.txt - this file contains the patch coverage of kAFL configuration files.
- kaf_krepair_patchcoverage.txt - this file contains the patch coverage of repaired kAFL configuration files.
- syzkaller_config_patchcoverage.txt - this file contains the patch coverage of Syzkaller configuration files.
- krepair_patchcoverage.txt - this file contains the patch coverage of repaired Syzkaller configuration files.
- links_to_syzkaller_configuration_used.txt - this file contains the links to the syzkaller configuration files used during fuzzing experiments.
- test_100_randconfigs.py - this script is used to generate 100 configuration files with randconfig utility, build kernel images with them, and try to boot the kernel images with QEMU.
- kafl_krepair_experiment_j8.csv - this file contains the results of the replication study for kAFL and repaired kAFL configuration files.
- syzkaller_krepair_experiment_j8.csv - this file contains the results of the replication study for Syzkaller and repaired Syzkaller configuration files.
- defconfig_krepair_experiment_j8.csv - this file contains the results of the replication study for defconfig and repaired defconfig configuration files.
## data_tables folder
data_tables/ - This directory contains the data tables that were used to generate the figures and tables in the paper. They are a summary of the results of the experiments conducted in the paper.
data_tables/Table_of_all_crashes.xlsx - this file contains the data about all alarms found during experiments with and without configuration variety. It has columns that represent the following:
- "Crash name" - the name of the crash
- "Full trace" - the call trace of the crash derived from the respective syzkaller bug report
- "Tool" - the tool that found the crash
- "Experiment" - the experiment where the crash was found
- "Fuzzed Linux Commit ID" - the commit ID of the Linux kernel that was being fuzzed
- "Patch Commit ID" - the patch used for generating the configuration variety
- "Blocks covered" - the number of basic blocks covered, only available for crashes found during the "Coverage" experiment
- "Syscalls executed" - the number of system calls executed, only available for crashes found during the "Coverage" experiment
- "Config option count" - the number of configuration options in the configuration file that was used to build the kernel for the experiment
- "Config file size(in bytes)" - the size of the configuration file that was used to build the kernel for the experiment
- "Binary size(in Mbs)" - the size of the kernel binary that was built for the experiment
- "Time taken to find" - the time taken by the fuzzer to find the crash
- "Reproducer available" - whether a reproducer was available for the crash
- "Reproducer type" - the type of reproducer available for the crash (Can be either a C reproducer or Syz reproducer, a Syzkaller reproducer program)
- "Reproducer crashed on repaired config" - whether the reproducer crashed on the kernel build with the repaired configuration file
- "Reproducer crashed on Syzkaller config" - whether the reproducer crashed on the kernel build with the original Syzkaller configuration file
- "Previously unreported" - whether the crash was previously unreported at the time of the experiment
- "Reported" - whether the crash was reported to the Linux kernel maintainers by us
- "LKML Discussion" - whether the crash was discussed on the Linux kernel mailing list
- "Developers Responded" - whether the Linux kernel developers responded to the bug report
- "Developers Confirmed" - whether the Linux kernel developers confirmed the bug
- "Developers Patched" - whether the Linux kernel developers patched the bug
- "CVE Issued" - whether a CVE was issued for the bug

data_tables/Repaired-SYZKALLER Deduplicated Crash name+Trace(Bug Finding+Coverage).xlsx - this file contains the data about deduplicated alarms found during experiments with and without configuration variety.
data_tables/Repaired-SYZKALLER Only Crash+Call Trace(Bug Finding+Coverage).xlsx - this file contains the data about all alarms found during experiments with and without configuration variety. It contains the name of the crash with the call trace of the crash.
## repairer_script folder

- addr2line_inside_ifdef.py - This script compares two text files to identify lines that are different between them and determines whether these differing lines are located within conditional compilation blocks marked by #ifdef or #if in the source code. It reads the files, computes the differences, and then checks if each differing line is inside a #ifdef or #if block, printing the results.
- block_coverage_bar_chart.py - This script visualizes a comparison of code coverage, measured in the number of blocks, between two fuzzing with and without config variety, "Our Approach" and "Syzkaller" respectively, across multiple experimental runs. It plots sorted coverage data as side-by-side bars for each tool on a bar chart, labeling the y-axis with coverage values. The plot is saved to a PDF file named 'block_coverage_comparison_chart.pdf'.
- bugs_unique_and_common.py - This script is used for comparing unique and common crash names found by fuzzing with and without configuration variety. It needs crash names belonging to fuzzing with configuration variety in column 1 and crash names belonging to fuzzing without configuration variety in column 2.
- build_kernel.sh - This script is used to build the Linux kernel with a given configuration file and commit hash. Built kernel images are needed to run them in QEMU to test whether reproducers of crashes crash on kernels built with and without configuration variety.
- categorize_bugs_bar_chart.py - This script is used for categorizing all crashes found by fuzzing with configuration variability based on their types. It reads the names of the crashes from the provided CSV file and categorizes them into different types, then visualizes the results as a bar chart and saves it to a PDF file named 'categorized_bugs_bar_chart.pdf'.
- collect_reproducers.sh - This script reads the names and paths to the reproducers of crashes from the repaired_reproducers.csv file and checks the type of the reproducer. It puts C reproducers to /home/anon/research/repaired_reproducers/c_reproducers and Syzkaller reproducers to /home/anon/research/repaired_reproducers/syz_reproducers.
- find_reproducers.sh - this script is used for finding reproducers and their types (C or syz) in repaired_bugs folders, the folder that stores folders of bugs found during fuzzing with configuration variety. It generates reproducers.csv files and stores them there.
- find_unique_crash.py - This script is used to find unique alarm names + call trace pairs from the results of fuzzing with and without configuration variety. It reads the results from the provided CSV file and finds unique alarm names + call trace pairs, then saves them to a new CSV file.
- fuzzing_syzkaller_default.sh - This script is used to perform fuzzing without configuration variety using Syzkaller. It uses a configuration file arbitrarily selected from the Syzbot dashboard and a Linux-next tag to check out to build the kernel and starts fuzzing with Syzkaller while saving the outputs.
- get_call_trace.py - This Python script automates the process of extracting call traces from Syzkaller bug reports, categorizing them based on uniqueness, and compiling bug statistics.
- get_source_lines_of_code_default.sh - This script is used to get the number of source lines of code of the Linux kernel binary built with configuration file without configuration variety.
- get_source_lines_of_code_repaired.sh - This script is used to get the number of source lines of code of the Linux kernel binary built with a configuration file with configuration variety.
- repaired_bugs.csv - a CSV file that contains the names of all crashes found by fuzzing with configuration variety.
- repaired_bugs2.csv - a CSV file that contains the names of all previously unreported crashes found by fuzzing with configuration variety.
- repaired_reproducers.csv - a CSV file that contains the names of all crashes found by fuzzing with configuration variety that has reproducers. It stores the names of the crashes, reproducer types, and paths to the reproducers.
- ifdef_find_bug_relevance.py - this script checks whether configuration options related to files that contain definitions of functions found in the call trace of a bug's Syzkaller report or configuration options related to conditional blocks that may cover the call of those functions exist in configuration files with and without configuration variety.
- kernel_size_and_modules.py - This script automates the process of compiling the Linux kernel with different configurations, measuring the size of the resulting kernel images and modules, and logging the results to a CSV file. It iterates over rows in an input CSV file, each specifying a commit ID and paths to Syzkaller and repaired configuration files. For each row, the script checks out the specified commit, cleans the kernel directory, applies both configurations (with and without configuration variety, Syzkaller and repaired) one after the other, compiles the kernel, and calculates the size of the compiled kernel image (bzImage) and modules. The sizes are then logged in the CSV file along with the commit ID and configuration file names, facilitating the comparison of kernel sizes across different configurations and commits.
- source_lines.csv - this csv is used by get_source_lines_of_code_default.sh and get_source_lines_of_code_repaired.sh to get configuration file names, commit IDs, and Linux-next tags.
- source_lines.sh - This script is designed to process C source files (*.c) in a specified Linux kernel directory, attempting to find corresponding preprocessed files (*.i). For each .c file with a matching .i file, it extracts lines from the .i file that originated from the .c file, saving these lines to a new text file. The script is used by get_source_lines_of_code_default.sh and get_source_lines_of_code_repaired.sh to extract source lines of code from the Linux kernel binary.
- syscall_exec_bar_chart.py - this script is used to generate a bar chart to compare the throughput of fuzzing with and without configuration variety. It uses throughput data manually obtained from data_tables/Table_of_all_crashes.xlsx.
- time_taken_scatterplot.py - This script is used to visualize the time taken to find bugs found by fuzzing with and without configuration variety.
- venn_diagram.py - This script is used to generate Venn diagrams to compare unique and common bugs found by fuzzing with and without configuration variety. It uses data manually obtained from data_tables/Table_of_all_crashes.xlsx.

## krepair_syzkaller_evaluation folder

- run_many_syzkaller_evaluations.sh - This Bash script orchestrates the evaluation of Syzkaller configurations against a set of Linux kernel commit IDs, which can either be provided through a file or fetched from a server. It sets up the environment for each kernel commit, invoking another script to run the actual evaluation for Syzkaller fuzzing configurations and organizes the output into directories named after the commit IDs.
- run_evaluate_syzkaller_config.sh - This script generates a Syzkaller configuration file with Syzkaller's syz-kconf utility and runs evaluate_syzkaller_config.sh to check how many lines of the commit it covers.
- evaluate_syzkaller_config.sh - This script is used to evaluate the coverage of a Syzkaller configuration file. It uses the koverage tool from the kmax tool suite to see whether there are lines from the patch commit that are excluded in the Syzkaller configuration file, and if yes, the script uses the klocalizer tool from kmax to "repair" the Syzkaller config to include those lines as well.
- calculate_confidence_intervals.py - This script is used to calculate the confidence intervals of the coverage of Syzkaller and repaired configuration files. It uses the coverage data obtained from evaluate_syzkaller_config.sh.
- change_summary_2.sh - this script is used to find out how many configuration options were added to the original Syzkaller configuration files by our approach.
- data_summary.sh - This script is used to summarize the results of the replication study.
- data_summaries.sh - this script is used to run many data_summary.sh scripts for many datasets.
- measure_change.py - this script is used to measure the change in the number of configuration options of repaired Syzkaller configuration files against the total number of configuration options available on the configuration system. It is used inside the change_summary_2.sh script
- coverable_patches - this file contains the list of patches that are used in the replication study.
- total_coverage.py - this script is used to merge the output of koverage into a single coverage report. It is used inside evaluate_syzkaller_config.sh script.

## krepair_kafl_evaluation_folder
This folder contains the same scripts as krepair_syzkaller_evaluation folder but for kAFL configuration files.

# Figures

## Figure (Distribution of kernel bug types found by Our Approach.)
In this figure, you can see the types of bugs found by Our Approach. The most common type of bug found is the kernel warnings, followed by the various kernel bugs and general protection faults.
To get the figure, you can run the following command:
```Python
python3 categorize_bugs_bar_chart.py
```

This script uses list of the names of new bugs found by Our Approach obtained from data_tables/Table_of_all_crashes.xlsx and categorizes them.

## Figure (12-hour total bugs found by Our Approach and Syzkaller and 12-hour new bugs found by Our Approach and Syzkaller.)
In the first figure, you can see the total number of bugs found by Our Approach and Syzkaller in 12 hours. 
In the second figure, you can see the new bugs found by Our Approach and Syzkaller in 12 hours.

The following command can be used to get both figures:
```Python
python3 venn_diagram.py
```

This script uses the quantity of total and new bugs found both by Our Approach and Syzkaller obtained from data_tables/Table_of_all_crashes.xlsx and provides two Venn diagrams that describe the intersection of these two sets in terms of total and new bugs.

## Table (12-hour previously-unreported kernel bugs found by Our Approach, and their current post-reporting status)
The table depicts the previously unreported kernel bugs found by Our Approach and their current post-reporting status. The table is obtained from data_tables/Table_of_all_crashes.xlsx.

## Figure (12-hour test cases executed by Our Approach and Syzkaller.)
The figure shows the number of test cases executed by Our Approach and Syzkaller over 10 runs that lasted 12 hours each.
To get the figure, you can run the following command:
```Python
python3 syscall_exec_bar_chart.py
```
The script uses the number of test cases executed by Our Approach and Syzkaller obtained from data_tables/Table_of_all_crashes.xlsx.

## Figure (12-hour basic block coverage of Our Approach and Syzkaller.)
This figure shows the basic block coverage of Our Approach and Syzkaller over 10 runs that lasted 12 hours each.
To get the figure, you can run the following command:
```Python
python3 block_coverage_bar_chart.py
```

## Figure(Average patch coverage of syzkaller, kAFL, and defconfig.)

In this figure, you can the average patch coverage of syzkaller, kAFL, and defconfig. The figure is obtained from the results of the replication study.
To get the figure, first patch coverage data for each dataset should be obtained. Following commands can be utilized to get each of the patch coverage files that should be provided to calculate_confidence_interval.py script:
```Python
# to obtain syzkaller_config_patchcoverage.txt
grep "syzkaller_config" syzkaller_krepair_experiment_j8.csv | awk -F',' '{print $3}' > syzkaller_config_patchcoverage.txt

# to obtain krepair_patchcoverage.txt
grep "krepair" syzkaller_krepair_experiment_j8.csv | awk -F',' '{print $3}' > krepair_patchcoverage.txt

# to obtain kafl_config_patchcoverage.txt
grep "kafl_config" kafl_krepair_experiment_j8.csv | awk -F',' '{print $3}' > kafl_config_patchcoverage.txt

# to obtain kafl_krepair_patchcoverage.txt
grep "krepair" kafl_krepair_experiment_j8.csv | awk -F',' '{print $3}' > kafl_krepair_patchcoverage.txt

# to obtain defconfig_config_patchcoverage.txt
grep "defconfig" defconfig_krepair_experiment_j8.csv | awk -F',' '{print $4}' > defconfig_config_patchcoverage.txt

# to obtain defconfig_krepair_patchcoverage.txt
grep "krepair" defconfig_krepair_experiment_j8.csv | awk -F',' '{print $4}' > defconfig_krepair_patchcoverage.txt
```

To get the figure, you can utilize:

```Python
python3 calculate_confidence_interval.py --syzkaller_file syzkaller_config_patchcoverage.txt --krepair_file krepair_patchcoverage.txt --kafl_file kafl_config_patchcoverage.txt --kafl_krepair_file kafl_krepair_patchcoverage.txt --defconfig_file defconfig_config_patchcoverage.txt --defconfig_krepair_file defconfig_krepair_patchcoverage.txt
```

## Table(Number of configurations options changed by krepair)

The table shows the number of configuration options changed by krepair. The table is obtained from the change_of_summaries_bug_finding_coverage.csv file using get_percentage_change.py. To get the table, you can run the following command:
```Python
python3 get_percentage_change.py --change_of_summaries_csv change_of_summaries_bug_finding_coverage.csv
```

## Bootability Study Script

The following command can be used to get the results of bootability study:
```Python
python3 test_100_randconfigs.py -k ~/linux-next -o ~/Documents/100_randconfigs_test/outdir -v DEBUG
```

## Change Summary Study Script

The following command can be used to get the results of change summary study:
```Python
bash krepair_syzkaller_evaluation/change_summary_2.sh change_study.csv
```
change_study.csv is a csv file that contains the names of original and repaired Syzkaller configuration, and patch commits that are used to repair the original configuration files.
